Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to continue working on our search feature now, we ended our previous lesson
by sending off in asynchronous request to our server.
So let's begin this lesson by adding a matching route for that request.
Let me show you what I mean in our text editor within the route of our project folder.
I want you to jump in to router J.S. under this comment that says post related routes.
Let's add a new route, let's say router dot post for the first argument.
Let's say slash search.
Right.
If someone sends a post request to this route, well, then the second argument is what we want to do
in response.
So you can imagine that we would want to look in our post controller and in 20 seconds from now, we
can create a function named search.
Let's go ahead and save this file.
And now let's jump into our post controller and create a function with this matching name.
So in the controllers folder, post controller, let's scroll down to the bottom and let's add a new
function.
So exports dot search equals a function.
Let's be sure to give it parameters of request and response.
OK, in the body of this function, we can imagine that in our post model.
So uppercase post in a minute or two we can create a function named search.
The only thing we need to pass into this is the search term that the user just searched for.
Right.
So if they searched for puppy, we'd want our controller to pass that value into this model function.
So to do that, but then these parentheses, we can just say request dot body, dot search term.
Remember when we used Axios to send off a request?
We included an object with a property name of search term.
OK, now you can imagine that when we create this search function within our model, we can set it up
to return a promise.
So if this returns a promise, then at the end we can use the dot, then dot catch syntax.
Let's provide functions for both then and catch.
So let's use arrow functions.
Do the same thing for catch.
If the promise is successful and resolves, we would just want to send back the raw JSON data to the
browser, so response dot JSON and we can set things up so that the promise resolves with a value.
The value will be the data or the posts from the database that it finds.
So within the parentheses for this arrow function, let's include a parameter.
We can make up any name we want, but I'm going to call it posts.
And just a quick syntax note.
When you're using an arrow function, if you have exactly one parameter, you don't need the parentheses
around it.
OK, now that's what we would want to send back as JSON data.
So in these parentheses posts.
All right.
And if there's an error, if the promise rejects for any reason, let's just send back an empty array.
So response JSON empty square brackets.
Let's go ahead and save this file.
And now we better go into our post model and create a function with this matching name.
So within our models folder, jump in to post JS.
Let's scroll down to the very bottom right before this closing module exports, let's say uppercase
post dot search should equal a function within these parentheses.
We better include a parameter to receive the incoming search term within the body of this function.
We know that we want it to return a promise, so return new promise.
Let's give this promise a function so arrow function within the parentheses.
We want to be sure to include, resolve and reject.
OK, now, within this function, before we perform any database operations, let's make sure that this
incoming search term is a string of text, not an object, and to make sure that it's not undefined.
So let's set up an if statement if parentheses curly brackets.
Let's also add an else block for the condition we can just say type of and then pass that search term.
Let's say only if that equals string.
This will do two things for us.
It will prevent malicious users from being able to pass an object into a Mongo DB operation.
This greatly reduces the chances of a no sequel injection attack.
And it also makes sure that if someone sends a weird request to this route without a search term at
all, well, then this would be type of undefined.
So big picture.
If this is not true, then in the else block we would just want our promise to reject.
But if this is true, then let's go ahead and perform the database operation.
Let's go ahead and create a variable.
So let let's name it posts and let's set that to equal and then we can just leverage our uppercase post
dot reuseable post query function.
Remember this is going to return a promise.
So right at the start of this we could just say awaked and if we're going to use a wait, we better
be within an async function.
So right before the parentheses with resolve and reject, just say async.
OK, after this let posts aquiline, then we would just want to resolve and we'd want to resolve with
the value of the posts that we found from our database.
Now let's circle back to the parentheses for this reuseable post query to refresh your memory.
We give it an array, so square brackets and this should be an array of aggregate operations.
Remember, we just give it the beginning or unique operations and then this function will add on all
of the ending or boilerplate code.
So within these square brackets, let's drop down so we can include one operation per line, curly brackets,
let's say dollar sign, match colon, give that an object.
And now this is new for us.
We don't want to match based on a perfect and complete match for a field.
Instead, we want to perform a text search, meaning we don't need a perfect match.
We're just looking for anything that contains our search term anywhere within its value.
So we can say dollar sign, text, colon, give that an object and then dollar sign, search colon.
And then we include our actual search term that we're looking for.
So search term at the end of this line, let's include a comma and we just need one more operation.
So curly brackets, let's say dollar signs, sort colon, give that an object and we want to sort by
score.
In the past we had sorted our posts by created date.
Well, now, since this is a search we want.
A sort by their relevancy score, right, we want the best match for your search term at the top.
So score Colen, give that an object dollar sign Medda in quotes, text score.
Let's go ahead and save this.
But we're not ready to test things out yet because when you want to perform a text search and Mongo
DB, meaning you're not looking for an exact value match, but instead you're just looking to see if
these fields contain certain text within them, that can be an expensive operation for a database to
perform.
Right.
Having to comb through every single document and look in every single field.
So in order to make that operation not so incredibly expensive and taxing Mongo DB uses indexes.
Let me show you what I mean.
So right now, I need you to sign in to your Mongo DB Atlus account, navigate to your collection screen,
and then pull up your complex app database and click into your posts collection.
On the right hand side here we find indexes and aggregation.
I want you to click on indexes.
We can see that by default out of the box, there's only one index for this collection and it's based
on their underscore I.D. This way, when you want to find a document by its ID, that operation is very
quick and responsive and not super taxing on the database.
Well, right now, we want to set things up so that the title and body fields of a post are also indexed
that way.
When we want to search within those fields, it's not a super slow and taxing operation.
So we can just click create index from this screen.
Let's adjust the fields area instead of fields one.
Let's just have it so quotes and say title and then instead of type in the greater than less than just
say text.
Right.
We want to create a text based index that can be searched for the title field on this line.
Let's do the same thing for the body field.
So quotes body and then just quotes text.
OK, with that set up then towards the bottom we can just click create.
It's asking us if we want to confirm this operation.
Please confirm that you would like to create an index in this collection.
Yes we do.
So we can just click confirm.
OK, and now on the indexes screen you can see we have two indexes, one for the ID and there's our
new one for title text and body text.
Cool.
So now our search will be able to do its job perfectly to test this out.
Let's just jump back into our front end search dogs file and let's find our method where we're sending
off an axios request to our server.
Right.
So we have this method named send request.
This is what's going to happen after that three second typing delay within the then area.
This will run if the promise is successful, if Axios is able to send off a request to our server and
receive a response well within the parentheses for this then function, let's say response.
And remember, if you have exactly one parameter, you don't need the parentheses around it.
OK, so this parameter represents the servers response.
In this case, it's going to be JSON data.
So within this function, just as a test, let's log to the console.
So console that log response dot data.
Right.
Just as a test.
We want to be able to visually see the data that the server is sending back to the Web browser.
Let's save this file.
But before we truly test this out, I want to create a few additional posts just so we have additional
data to search from.
So create post, I'll give it a title of JavaScript is great for the body.
Web development is fun.
Lorem ipsum.
Save that.
Maybe create another post, success is great, web development is fun, lorem ipsum.
OK, cool, if you already had sample post to work with, just make sure that you refresh your front
end and let's try to perform a search actually before we perform a search.
Be sure to open up your console.
So right.
Click and choose, inspect and then click on the console tab.
And now if I search for Lorem, since that's included in multiple posts, if you wait three thousand
milliseconds.
Hello everyone.
This is a quick update note from Future Brad in March of twenty twenty one.
So up until very recently we would have successfully seen the results here.
However, Mongo DB has recently had an update and we do need to change our code a bit to get things
to work.
So back in the command line, you can see that our back end crashed and the error message is field path.
Field names may not start with dollar sign.
Now, this is not a very helpful error message and I actually had to do a bit of Googling.
It turns out that dollar signs sort needs to come after dollar signs project.
If the thing you're sorting by is text score.
And if you think about the way that our reuseable post query function works, it's adding these aggregate
operations at the beginning and then adds on the other boilerplate operations after that, meaning that
the dollar sign project from our reasonable post query is going to come after sort in.
This causes the problem with the newest version of Mongo DB.
So let me show you how I would solve this so that we don't have to completely refactor all of our code
right now.
Let's go find our reuseable post query function.
So for me it's round line number seventy nine.
This is where we're creating that function right now.
It just has two parameters.
I'd actually add on a third parameters of karma.
You could call it whatever you want, but I'll call it final operations and we can give it a default
value of just an empty array.
So this way, even though we don't pass in third argument, every single time we call this function,
things will still work out just fine.
OK, so we're taking the unique operations that come in and then we're catting on this boilerplate code
and here's the dollar sign project.
So we just want the sort to come after this.
So what I would do is down here where this array ends and then after these closing parentheses, I would
just say dot concat and then just add on final operations, final operations.
OK, with this update in place, let's go back down to our search query.
This is the code we wrote earlier in the lesson.
And now we just want to adjust the way that we're calling reasonable post query.
So this entire support line, I would just copy or cut that into your clipboard.
So get rid of it.
And then we no longer need this comma at the end of this line.
And now when we're calling this reuseable post query function, this array is our first argument.
After that array, let's have a comma.
Let's have our second value.
Just be undefined because in this case, the visitor ID doesn't matter.
We're only including this second argument so that we can have a third argument and this will be our
final operation.
So I would just include square brackets and then just paste back in your clipboard.
This way sort will come after project.
Now, you don't always need it to come after.
But in this case, since we were sorting by text score, this is necessary with the newest version of
Mongo DB.
So let's go ahead and save this file.
Now, back in the browser if I search for Lorem once again.
In my console, perfect, cool, we see an array with two items, so each one's an object and then we
can see their title and their body content.
But if I search for something that should only have one result.
So JavaScript.
Cool, we see an array with just one object in it now in our next lesson, we're going to take this
raw JSON data and use it to generate HTML that will look like this.
Only the data will be real and dynamic.
However, before we jump into our next lesson, I do want to cover one detail within this JSON.
If we expand an object, you can see that in addition to tidal and body, we're also making a property
named Author ID available.
Now, this is not a huge vulnerability, but in my opinion, there's no need for the general public
to be able to see the user ID of another account.
A general practice that I like to follow is that my model should not leak out or expose any data that
I don't 100 percent need it to expose and leak out.
In this case, the front end of our website has absolutely no need for the authorized right.
We're only using that on the server side to determine the value for this is visiter owner property.
So within our post model, let's set things up so that we strip out this authorized property before
actually returning data to our controller.
So back in our text editor, back in uppercase post model, let's look for our reusable post query function.
It's the line that begins with post reuseable.
Post query equals a function.
So after we perform our aggregate operations, if we scroll down a bit here, we see the area where
we are using map to loop through our array of posts.
And on this line, we clearly do need the authority to determine if the current visitor is the owner
of this post.
However, below this line, we now have no need for the authorized, so let's just get rid of it in
the object that this is going to return.
Now, we could say delete post DOT author ID and that would work perfectly.
But studies have shown that this is a rather slow operation.
If you're going to be looping through an array and performing it multiple times instead, it's much
more efficient to just say post dot author IDE should equal undefined.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And then back on the front end of our site, I perform one more search, maybe if I search for success.
Here we see the new results.
It's just an array with one item, and if I expand it cool, you can see that authorized property is
gone.
That wasn't a huge deal.
But now we can rest assured that the only data being exposed is data that the front end absolutely needs.
Cool at this point.
We're ready to jump in to our next lesson where we begin generating HTML based on this raw data.
This should be a lot of fun to set up.
So let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.